====================
Django Evolution 2.2
====================

**Release date:** October 3, 2022


New Features
============

* Added support for Django 3.2 through 4.1.

  This includes full support for :py:class:`django.db.models.Index`, and
  compatibility with database backend changes made in these versions.

* Added support for changing a field's type in :ref:`mutation-change-field`.

  This can be done by passing in the new field class to ``field_type=...``.

* Added a new ``settings.DJANGO_EVOLUTION`` setting.

  This is in the form of:

  .. code-block:: python

     DJANGO_EVOLUTION = {
         'CUSTOM_EVOLUTIONS': {
             '<app_label>': ['<evolution_module>', ...],
         },
         'ENABLED': <bool>,
     }

  This replaces ``settings.CUSTOM_EVOLUTIONS`` and
  ``settings.DJANGO_EVOLUTION_ENABLED``, both of which are now deprecated
  and will emit deprecation warnings.


Bug Fixes
=========

General
-------

* Fixed generating SQL to execute while in a transaction on Django 2.0+.


Indexes/Constraints
-------------------

* Fixed ordering issues when dropping and re-creating indexes when changing
  ``db_index`` and ``unique`` states.

* Fixed deferring constraints and indexes when injecting new models into the
  database.

  The constraints and indexes were being added too soon, which could cause
  problems when applying more complicated batches of evolution.

* Fixed issues with setting non-string initial data from a callable.

* Fixed attempting to temporarily remove indexes and constraints that
  reference models not yet injected into the database.

* Fixed edge cases with the tracking of standard vs. unique indexes in
  database state on Django 1.6.


MySQL
-----

* Fixed bad attempts at applying defaults to certain field types.

  Django Evolution will no longer apply a default on ``text``, ``blob``,
  ``json``, and all ``short``/``medium``/``long`` variations of those.


Python Compatibiltiy
--------------------

* Fixed an unintended deprecation warning with the :py:mod:`collections`
  module when running on Python 3.10.


Contributors
============

* Christian Hammond
* David Trowbridge
