====================
Django Evolution 2.3
====================

**Release date:** October 15, 2023


Installation
============

Django Evolution 2.3 is compatible with Django_ 1.6-4.2, and Python 2.7 and
3.6-3.12.

To install Django Evolution 2.3, run:

.. code-block:: console

   $ pip3 install django_evolution==2.3

To learn more, see:

* `Documentation <https://django-evolution.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_
* `Django Evolution on PyPI <https://pypi.org/project/django-evolution/>`_
* `Django Evolution on GitHub <https://github.com/beanbaginc/django-evolution/>`_


.. _Django: https://www.djangoproject.com/


New Features
============

* Added support for Python 3.12 and Django 4.2.

* Added support for evolving table comments on Django 4.2.

  This is done through :ref:`mutation-change-meta`.

* Added advanced management commands for working with project signatures and
  marking evolutions as applied.

  :ref:`command-mark-evolution-applied` will mark one or more evolutions as
  applied to your database, without modifying any schema.

  :ref:`command-evolution-project-sig` will let you list project signatures,
  show a stored project signature, or delete project signatures.

  These are advanced and dangerous commands. They should only be run if you
  know what you're doing, as part of diagnosing and fixing a failed database
  upgrade.

* Added debug logging for the evolution process.

  If Python's logging is set up to enable debug output, then the evolution
  process will provide information on the new models generation, mutations,
  and evolutions begin run. This can aid in debugging efforts.


Contributors
============

* Christian Hammond
* David Trowbridge
